# Contributing Guidelines

> [!NOTE]
> This document is W.I.P.

## Commit messages

Unless there is a good reason to deviate from the format,
use commit message that would be proper changelog bullets (see below).

## Changelog

When user-facing changes are made
(that is, no code-only refactoring, README updates, and other menial stuff),
changes should go into [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md).

For each version, there is a list of bullets,
with one change per bullet.
Bullets are ordered by category
(where the category is also the first word of the bullet),
and within each category, by importance.
These categories are as follows:

<dl>
  <dt>remove</dt>
  <dd>Removal of a feature.</dd>
  <dt>change</dt>
  <dd>Breaking change in existing behavior.</dd>
  <dt>deprecate</dt>
  <dd>
    Deprecation of a feature.
    That is, the feature will be removed in the future,
    but remains supported for compatibility.
  </dd>
  <dt>add</dt>
  <dd>Meaningful new functionality.</dd>
  <dt>improve</dt>
  <dd>Improvement to existing functionality.</dd>
  <dt>fix</dt>
  <dd>Fix of broken functionality (bugs).</dd>
  <dt>also</dt>
  <dd>Anything else.</dd>
</dl>

Bullets should be followed by a list of issues/PRs related to the change,
in parentheses.
Documentation is also considered functionality
as long as it's tracked within the same repository.

### Example

For example, a changelog for a specific version could have the following contents:

> - remove the `\garbage` directive (#1, #2)
> - change HTML tag generated by `\xyz` directive (#3)
> - deprecate `fun` parameter in `\awoo` (#4)
> - add `\baka` directive (#5, #6)
> - improve error message when `\chan` gets blank input (#7)
> - fix segfault in `\desu` (#8)
> - also add some debug logging in `\desu` (#9)

## Use of generative artificial intelligence

While generative artificial intelligence may be prone to mistakes
and may be abused to create low-quality contributions,
it is also a useful tool in specific situations, such as:

- generating snippets of boilerplate code using auto-completion
- generating bits of documentation or correcting spelling and grammar

Therefore, COWEL permits contributions that are partially authored by AI.

> [!CAUTION]
> However, abuse of AI such as
> - generating clearly non-functional contributions without proof-reading
> - attempting to commit hallucinated dependencies and API calls
> 
> … is treated as gross negligence and will result in a permanent ban from the repository.
